<html>
<h1>The electro-thermal equivalent circuit modeling and dynamic behaviour analysis of a Li-ion nickel manganese cobalt oxide cell</h1>
<p> Abstract - This paper presents the modeling of a Li-ion NMC cell on MATLAB and analysis of the model for a particular drive cycle’s load current profile. The Thevenin equivalent circuit with one RC branch has been modeled and simulated. The experiment results at three different temperatures were used as LUT(look up tables) to estimate the parameters R0,R1,C1,OCV(Open circuit voltage). The coulomb counting method is employed to estimate the SOC.</p>
<h5>I INTRODUCTION</h5>
<p>The electrification of the vehicles and the new electric vehicles are very necessary for the sustainable transportation. The battery pack is the energy house of the EV and the motor draws current from it. Most of the E-vehicles uses Lithium chemistry based batteries/cells because of it’s higher specific energy, higher power ratings and more cycle life and discharge rates. Before using the cells or a battery pack for an EV, it is necessary to test the battery pack or an individual cell under different conditions like at different temperatures and SOCs to understand the behaviour of the cell. An electrochemical cell is highly nonlinear system. Modeling the cell on MATLAB-simulink and simulations helps in saving time and carrying out lot more tests. It is possible to simulate the cell model for extreme conditions without any risk but if it was a physical test it would have ended up getting damaged. The main aim of the test is to measure OCV, SOC, Terminal voltage, cell temperature.</p>
<h5>II. Equivalent circuit model</h5>
There are several ways to model a cell. The cell is highly nonlinear in nature. One of the best methods is the equivalent circuit model. This method has three more types. They are : 1. Internal resistance model. 2. One time constant method (One RC branch) 3. Two constant method (two RC branches).</p>  
</html>

